1.Who developed python programming language?
Guido van Rossum

2.Which type of programming does python support?
Python is an interpreted programming language, supporting object-oriented, structured, and functional programming.

3.Is python case sensitive when dealing with identifiers?
Yes, Python is a case-sensitive language.

4.What is the correct extension of the python file?
.py

5.Is python code compiled or interpreted?
Python is an interpreted language.

6.Name a few blocks of code used to define a python language?
The following are blocks: a module, a function body, and a class definition.

7.State a character used to give single-line comments in python?
Single # character.

8.Mention functions which can help us to find the version of python that we are currently working on?
Using sys.version method.
Using python_version() function.

9.Python supports the creation of anonymous functions at runtime using a construct called -- lambda

10.What does pip stand for python?
Preferred Installer Program

11.Mention a few built-in functions in python.
print(), abs(), round(), min(), max(), sorted(), sum(), and len().

12.What is the maximum possible length of an identifier in python?
An identifier can have a maximum length of 79 characters in Python.

13.What are benefits of using python?
i)Large developer community. Python is one of the most popular programming languages in the world.
ii)Extensive libraries. Python offers a wide range of libraries that can be used across various applications.
iii)Write less, do more. Python has very concise syntax.
iv)Portability.
v)Wide range of use cases.

14.How is memory managed in python?
Memory management in Python involves a private heap containing all Python objects and data structures. The management of this private heap is ensured internally by the Python memory manager.

15.How to install python in windows and set path variables?
Open a browser to the Python website and download the Windows installer. 2. Double click on the downloaded file and install Python for all users, and ensure that Python is added to your path.

Right click on My Computer and click on properties.
Click on Advanced System settings.
Click on Environment Variable tab.
Click on new tab of user variables.
Write path in variable name.
Copy the path of Python folder.
Paste path of Python in variable value. Click on Ok button: Click on Ok button:

Click on Install now to begin.

16.Is indentation required in python?
The indentation in Python is very important. Python uses indentation to indicate a block of code.
